IDI for so the first question I just like to start off by learning a little more about you
and your work so can you tell me about your role and typical responsibilities in your health care
facility. My role as obstetrician is to help the patients who come for ANC checkup to see that the pregnancy is carried out safely throughout and they have a safe confinement and as a gynecologist to cater for any health care issues of the other women in the reproductive or post reproductive age.
Perfect. And how long have you been in this position?
In this present working place, I have been here since four years.
Okay. And what types of patients do you most often see?
Most often I see ANC patients. Okay. And of course patients in the reproductive age group.
Okay. And what types of health issues, so in your case women's health issues, do you most commonly see?
Apart from agrarian cancer checkup, women do come to me with white discharge and irregular bleeding.
I see. And where does cervical cancer screening fall on that list of health issues that women come with?
I didn't get you.
So do women also come with cervical cancer or symptoms of cervical cancer?
Yeah, they do come with the symptoms.
And what types of services do you provide for the health issues you said? Whether it's white discharge or anything like that, what treatment do you offer them?
First I just examine them and to see. If there's an infection, I do treat them locally. And if the symptoms do persist, I just offer them a screening for cancer.
Even otherwise regularly, I do offer them a screening.
Okay. And now going a little bit more into cervical cancer specifically, are you involved in cervical cancer screening and treatment?
Yeah, I'm involved.
Okay. And how much did your medical training cover cervical cancer? Was it a lot in your training or did you learn more through experience?
It was more with experience only.
Okay.
You mean to say in the college days.
Yeah.
Yeah, not much exposure there.
Okay. Was there any formal continued medical education that helped in learning more or it was mostly just experience?
Yeah, yeah, of course. Country medical education. We attend CME and other things.
Okay.
They do help.
Wonderful. So, with that being said, are you aware of any formal training opportunities like CME for cervical cancer specifically, cervical cancer screening?
Any particular CME training for that?
Training, yeah.
No, I haven't done any particular training for that.
Okay. So, would you say that these types of trainings about cervical cancer are accessible for you or your colleagues or they're not as common?
They're accessible.
They're accessible.
They're accessible. Okay. Wonderful. So, getting more into the prevention and treatment, do you provide any prevention or treatment services for cervical cancer?
Prevention, actually screening will be done. That's a sort of prevention only because early detection will help the treatment to prevent the cancer.
Absolutely.
And recently the government is initiating a drive to vaccinate all the girls aged from 9 to 14.
Yeah.
So, that needs to be implemented yet.
Absolutely.
Even otherwise, if any patients are willing, I do advise them to go for other places to get the vaccine done.
Okay. And any treatment?
Treatment in earlier I used to practice in a private training. They used to give this, I used to do biopsy and cryotherapy once or twice have done.
Okay.
Not much than that.
But not here?
Not here. Here it's not done.
So, for screening specifically, is it offered to everyone or only if they have symptoms?
Screening I do offer for everyone.
Okay.
But not all undergo screening.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That makes sense.
And so, once they come to you for screening, what do the next steps look like? Whether they're negative or positive, what happens next?
If they're negative, then as they get it repeated for every year for three years, three consecutive years. Then if they're negative, it's fine. In case if they're positive, then I just refer them to higher symptoms.
Higher symptoms.
Medical quality here.
I see. I see. Got it. And do you only really screen when they show symptoms or do you screen regular, routinely?
Actually, patients do come to when they have symptoms. Otherwise, even if they offer, they won't be willing to get it screened.
Yeah. Got it. So, how many women who screen positive come back for follow-up or go to the next level for follow-up?
So far, I haven't seen any patient coming back to me.
Okay. No patients.
No one has come.
So, do you feel that enough women are getting follow-up or no?
Enough women, they are not getting follow-up, I think.
Okay. Okay. Got it.
So, once their symptoms fade off, then probably they'll be happy sitting at home.
I see. Don't come back.
Okay. And if their symptoms don't fade off, then you think...
Then they do come.
They do come.
They do come.
They come back to you or they go to the next...
They do come to me and then I advise them to go to the higher center.
Higher center.
And I don't know if you know this, but do they generally end up going to the higher center
or do you feel they don't end up going?
Some might go. Some will go. Some won't.
Okay. Okay.
Any amount or rate you feel or just generally some go, some don't go?
Like any number of women, you think 50 or so?
I'm not sure. I'm not sure.
No worries.
Is there anything that you do that will increase the chances of a woman following up?
Is there anything you say to them or do for them that you think will help them go?
I think a regular follow-up with Asha Varkas might help.
Okay. Okay.
So, same question.
Is there anything you would like to do or would be helpful to improve screening and follow-up amongst women?
I think health education.
Okay.
Regular health education monthly.
Got it.
And awareness might help.
And any ways you feel the best way to do that, awareness or health education?
Is there any specific way to increase the education?
Increase education.
I think the Asha Varkas, they will be the best persons to motivate women to ask them to come to me.
So that I can educate them.
Otherwise, I can't go to their door and ask them to come.
So, obviously, when they come here, I can educate them.
I see.
So, you think that it's important for women to come to the stage?
To come to the facility.
To come to the facility.
I see.
That makes a lot of sense.
Okay.
And then the next question is going into learning more about the CHC specifically and how the CHC works with cervical cancer treatment.
So, the first question is just how do you receive the equipment and supplies such as the pap smear kits or the colposcopy tools, whatever you might use.
How do you receive them to conduct the screening and follow-up?
Is it like a government gives you or what is the process?
At present only, I am doing VIA.
Okay.
So, usually, especially with acetic acid.
Okay.
So, corpus commandos is not available here.
Okay.
Okay.
So, how do you receive the VIA?
Usually, through the government.
Government.
And is everyone trained on the VIA or just?
No, not.
VIA, not.
I don't think everyone is trained.
Okay.
So, just you as the gynecologist can do VIA?
The nursing staff or anything?
Nursing staff, yeah.
If I train them, they can do.
Okay.
They do assistment, they can do.
Okay.
But they don't, okay, got it.
So, comes from the government, got it.
Yeah.
And then, do you have to work with any pathology or lab services then?
But if you don't do biopsy or pap smears, is there anything else you have to send to the lab?
Yeah, our lab technician, she doesn't study the smear.
Okay.
So, we have to send the smear to my medical college.
Okay.
So, you do do the smear here, the pap smear?
Sometimes I do.
Okay.
And what, how do you decide if you'll do pap smear or if you'll do VIA?
Like, which one do you choose based on what options?
Actually, VIA is much easier to do.
Yeah.
And it carries a lot more convenience.
Okay.
So, if people are willing for pap smear, then I'll do that.
Okay.
But otherwise, normally you do?
Normally, VIA.
VIA.
Okay.
And is it a cost difference or anything or it's the same?
That pap smears and VIA are equally accessible?
Yeah.
More than cost difference, it's the convenience.
Okay.
Like, perhaps you have to take the smear, then the labor attendants into the lab.
Yeah.
Then you have to follow it up.
Yeah.
I see.
So, actually based on that, because you're absolutely correct, that it takes some time
when you send to the lab and you get results.
So, does that time, does that get extended and women stop following up?
Yeah, yeah.
Maybe.
That happens sometimes.
Okay.
So, there's a time gap in between the pathology services.
Yeah, there's a time gap.
Okay.
Got it.
So, if you send a smear, how long does it take for the report to come back?
A few days, maybe.
Okay.
A few days.
Got it.
But, do you think the time affects the woman's willingness to get treated?
Like, longer times affect whether women will come back?
Not all, but some.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Makes sense.
Absolutely.
So, these questions are a bit repetitive, the next ones, but I'll just ask them.
Do you have the resources here to conduct treatment services for HPV infection or precancerous
lesions, such as cryotherapy, LEAP or thermal ablation?
We don't have any resources.
No.
Yes.
And, same question, a little repetitive, is resources to conduct treatment services for
cervical cancer, such as radiotherapy and chemotherapy?
No.
I think, in this aspect, we need to be trained.
Training is necessary.
Absolutely.
So, actually, that's a good segue.
Next question is, do you feel that your facility has, the CHC has enough medical personnel,
so nurses, doctors, staff, trained to work on preventing and treating cervical cancer?
At present, we're getting the staff recently due to transfer, so I've got a few more staff.
Okay.
So, I think now we may be able to do that.
I see.
But, what about the training instead of the number of people?
Training is necessary.
Absolutely necessary.
Absolutely.
licence
The story is happening in Victoria.
Yes.
Absolutely.
To what about the labor and the mental elements by KJ that we are doing doing something like
you that we have them as well.
I'm saying it doesn't matter.
Yes.
just go back sorry so we were just talking a little bit about training so
if you have any more thoughts on what does more training look like where do
you want to see more training whether it's it's for screening treatment or
just knowledge what does training look like I think training should be more
regarding knowledge and the treatment for screening anybody can do yeah screening
everyone can if we can do for treatment every time they need to go to higher
center so that will be difficult for the local local it's yeah so if the
difference might available locally certainly more helpful I think absolutely
that makes that makes sense so do you think that means that they you need more
gynecologists or you need more training for like nurses and staff so available
gynecologists and nurses can be trained if they're trained well enough that will be
more helpful okay okay so next question is going more into the CHC because you
must have to work with other facilities like you said you refer them to the
higher center so how would how does the referral process work between the CHC and
yourself and the higher centers or even the PHC ASHA workers how do you
communicate with them in case if I find a patient positive like I'll refer a
direct to the medical college for treatment and in case if I if ASHA knows
her well then I can follow her up with sending the ASHA like I'll collect the ASHA's number
they'll have it they'll see to it that she's getting her treatment there regularly
otherwise sometimes there are chances of missing a patient yeah if they're not from
this local area they're from other places I obviously do okay so the ASHA worker you
contact the ASHA worker who follows up with the patient on whether the patient is
getting their treatment from the higher center yeah so it's like us like a
multiple people multiple people I see and what about between the the yourself and the higher
center is there how do you communicate and contact the higher center oh obviously with
the written notes only I can just write my findings and add them to the needful I see so
sometimes getting the feedback will be difficult directly from them I see so the written notes
go through the patient or you send it directly to the higher center yeah unless I know the doctor
there okay so if there are many acquaintances or friends I can follow them up otherwise I'll just
have to get the help of the ASHA workers of the ASHA workers so with that being said then is is it
difficult to get the is it difficult to get the patient to the higher center
occasionally or is that mostly the ASHA workers job to see that the patient goes to
the no no sometimes if there is a absolute necessity the patients will
voluntarily go into the higher center only follow-up needs to be done okay though not all
maybe really few will definitely go okay got it and then in order to for you to keep track of the
patients you contact the ASHA workers so what tends to what works well in between working with
the ASHA workers and the higher set the higher center like how do you make sure the process is smooth
like ASHA workers act like mediators so the they are in good contact with the patient since they
said locally I see so I think they're the better process to convince them okay makes sense and so
do you feel there's a shared understanding so between the all the levels ASHA worker PHC CHC of
cervical care and do they all you know do they all give importance to cervical cancer or do you feel
it's it's different on different not not the same not the same okay so in what ways do you think it's
different at which level is it is it more maybe more important and at which levels is maybe it's
given less importance for cervical cancer if that makes sense like I did first the patient I need to
understand the seriousness of her symptoms yeah then she needs the ASHA worker needs to bring her here
then I get her exam and she had to take her for follow then get her treated so it's a long process
yeah so there will anyway chances of missing the patient in between or the treatment may be discontinued
I see so I think equally healthy education is always equally important so we have to create an
awareness among the women who are in the reproductive age group and let them understand the importance of
of the cervical cancer screening so then only we can screen and send them
I see absolutely and so sorry back to the shared understanding do you feel that the that
cervical cancer is given importance within the healthcare system so for example at the PHC or the CHC or the
higher center is it given more importance if a patient goes to the higher center versus if they go to the
PHC or you think they are all the levels give cervical cancer equal importance that it's an important
higher center I guess so based on this final on this part is what are some challenges that you're that the
patients face when they have to go to a different level of care so the higher center or even speak to
their ASHA what some issues they might have going to the higher center access will be the main issue I think because in a local
healthcare center like that the doctors and staff are easily accessible for them so in a higher center they'll be they're not knowing where to go whom to approach so that difficulty they might face
I see and if you don't mind expanding a little more on what access so because I'm not entirely familiar with the higher center so what makes it difficult to access the center is it just they're not familiar or it's busy things like that
such a big hospital they're not familiar with whom to contact whom not to and many won't be educated also so in a big hospital they find difficult to find the right person to contact the right person
I see even if you refer them and you give them a referral to the higher center they'll struggle to find the
sometimes they might struggle not all but some uneducated people and all they might struggle I see generally what are they supposed to do so when you refer them to the higher center what is the patient supposed to do when they go there are they supposed to find the
are they supposed to find the doctor themselves or you give them the doctor's name or how does it work we don't usually give them a doctor's name because the unit
you mentioned only there are separate units yeah so each day will be assigned to a different unit so we won't be knowing which unit will be working that particular day I see
so you just ask them to go to the OPD and give them the FLS name okay okay so they have to approach the doctor themselves okay I see so do you feel that makes it more difficult for them
maybe difficult sometimes okay versus in the CHC because this is the community do you feel feel the CHC makes it easier for them to to come in and get treatment versus the higher
center yeah this might be a bit easier compared to that and why why is that why because this setup will be closer to the place where they reside and there the people will be more accessible to them as I said earlier and the cost of traveling community is more accessible to them
as I said earlier and the cost of traveling commuting and that will be saved absolutely and also time
yeah that makes sense actually that's a good into my next question is are there any societal or cultural factors that impact whether women follow up on survival cancer care so anything society's things or cultural that stops them from seeking care or changes how they seek care I don't think so okay okay so
maybe like education awareness you had mentioned yeah but anything like family
support perspectives anything like social that changes their mind social like lower
social economic curve people might find it difficult because husbands many times they won't be drunk or they won't support their family so women have to earn themselves they have to look after their families so sometimes they might find it difficult otherwise no other cultural
intelligence I think okay only social economic maybe okay so there's no cultural perspective against cervical cancer you feel in what
cultural perspective just if if women are scared some people are scared of the word cancer so some women don't pursue treatment for that reason but I don't if only if you feel like it all depends on how you convince them like we don't put the word cancer directly into their head I just tell you that we are getting a screening test done I see not necessarily that patient should have had the cancer
okay just a screen test to find it out okay so that words might put some solace into them and they might be good okay we will need to go
got it so what about financial constraints do you feel the finances will change whether or not they follow up on care
yeah definitely okay is treatment expensive treatment in a government hospital is not expensive okay so then how come finances will impact just because it's still too expensive finance in the sense as i said
Is treatment expensive?
Treatment in government hospitals is not expensive.
So then how come finances will impact? Just because it's still too expensive?
Finance in the sense, as I said, in many households women will be working both outside and inside the home.
So one day going for treatment again, that day's expense will be...
They have to bed on the hunter. They won't be able to go to the work also.
So if they sit at home and go for treatment for a couple of days, then the family will be difficult.
That way it will be affected.
I see. So it's more about the expenses that are missing.
That's missing, yeah.
I understand.
I mean they won't be able to earn that amount for that particular day.
I understand. Got it.
And what about transportation? So reaching the facility to get the care, does that become...
Transportation at present, due to Siddhra Mai's government, all buses, they take the women free only.
Oh.
So transportation won't be...
Okay. So you feel that transporting to the higher centre is...
It's not a problem.
Okay, got it. How close is the higher centre to the CHC?
To this place around 15 kilometres, I guess. 15, 20 kilometres. 15 maybe.
Okay, wow. So that's...
15, 20, yeah.
Yeah.
Women are willing to make the...
Yeah.
Okay. So there's no issues in them, like, wanting to go.
No issues.
Just the financial thing becomes...
Yeah, only the financial thing becomes interesting.
I see.
So, and you mentioned this as well, but does the way that healthcare providers, like medical
providers like yourself, speak to the patients and speak about cervical cancer impact whether
or not they choose to follow up on care?
Yeah, definitely.
Okay.
And how so?
How so, like, we have to let them...
We have to make them be aware of the health issues they are facing.
Mm-hm.
And, like, since cervical cancer is a preventable one, we have to make them realize that treatment
prevention is equally important.
Mm-hm.
And so, if they are at good health, they can take care of their family well.
So you have to put that concept into their mind.
Mm-hm.
Got it.
So, compared to how we are speaking to women today and now, is there any way to improve
the way that we speak to them so that they will follow up on care?
Sorry.
I didn't...
Sorry, I didn't...
Any improvements we can make to encourage them to follow up on care when we speak to
them?
Yeah.
Whether it's, you said awareness, so that one I noted down, increasing awareness, anything
else, whether it's consolation, counselling, anything like that?
Yeah, you think...
Counseling might help.
Okay.
Counseling and regular screening camps.
Mm-hm.
Once in three months, once in six months.
That might help.
Okay.
So, once one who I miss, they will come to a screening for the next camp.
Mm-hm.
Screening at least twice a year.
Mm-hm.
That might help.
Okay.
Regular screening in all villages.
Yeah.
Regular screening.
Wonderful.
So, then we're nearing the end, but this is more looking into the future and take your time
to think about it, but if you were able to make one or two changes to improve cervical
cancer screening in your facility or in the CSC or in this district, what would they be?
One thing is a mandatory vaccination for all girls, teenage girls.
Then compassive screening.
That's the only thing I would recommend.
Okay.
So, when there's mass screening and it's free of cost, then obviously if one woman goes,
other women will follow her.
And what is the best way to do that?
How do you get these women to these mass screenings?
Is it holding them in the CSC or going into the community?
How do you suggest doing it?
Going into the community can be done through ASHA workers.
They have to get their patients.
I see.
So, but ASHA workers are not trained on cervical cancer screening.
They're not trained.
Right.
So, instead do you suggest training them or bringing them, having them bring the patients to
the...
Let them bring the patients.
That will be better.
So, and bring them to the CSC.
The CSC.
Right.
Because even the two houses, they won't be able to screen them there.
That won't be possible.
Yeah.
So, then what about changes to improve follow-up and treatment?
So, not screening, but following up and making sure women, because a lot of women end
up not, you know, you had mentioned not all women go to the higher center.
So, how can we improve and make sure they go to the higher center?
I think once we screen a certain list of patients, we have to note down their attention number.
And once you come positive, you can follow them up.
By regular health staff or I can call them myself.
I see.
Because a few patients around my working place, it won't be much difficult, I think.
Yeah.
Got it.
And so, you feel that, you feel that that will help if the doctor speaks to them directly,
that it will have a stronger...
Yeah.
It will help them.
It will boost their confidence.
I see.
Got it.
And any innovation that you feel could significantly improve patient outcomes in the CHC?
So, whether it's any technology or education that would make cervical cancer screening and
treatment better here.
But I think all, like I said, as a working gynecologist here, I think in Mysore there
are many gynecologists, but we are made to concentrate more on ANCs.
Yeah.
Like antenatal obstetricians.
Yeah.
We concentrate more on obstetrics rather than gynecology.
So, I think we, people need regular training in treatment.
Yes.
Like cryotherapy.
Yeah.
But even then, you train...
That might help us practice here a bit.
Absolutely.
So, training is one thing that absolutely I agree.
Every centre needs training.
And you had mentioned that if this centre offered it, maybe more people would get treatment
rather than going to the higher...
Yeah, that could be.
So, then, does that mean you would also want more technology for the facility itself?
For example, to do treatment you also need the tools and the supplies.
Yeah, yeah.
Would you...
Is that something also that would be worth investing in?
Getting that in the CHC?
Yeah.
Such as treatment, like cryotherapy, lean...
Yeah, basic therapy can be given, I think.
Okay.
Okay.
And are you familiar with the Foxy Good Clinical Practice recommendations, the GCPR recommendations?
I can just give you one.
Yeah.
We just asked so that we can give this, but it's basically a...
for cervical cancer screening and HPV vaccine.
Yeah, I'm aware of this.
You are aware of this.
Yes.
But would you like to keep this?
It's for you if you would like it.
Yeah.
Perfect.
Can I?
Yeah, absolutely, please.
Okay, thank you.
Yeah.
And then we're just getting into our final questions.
So, this is more hypothetical, but let's say there was a cervical cancer prevention center
that had all the equipment and trained personnel to conduct screening and follow-up.
If that was available, would you use the center to either refer patients or conduct screening
and follow-up yourself?
Yeah, sure.
Okay.
I'm going to use it.
Any reason you feel that some providers would not use it?
I don't think so.
Okay.
That's good to know.
So, then finally, and take your time to think about this, is there anything else you would
like to share about your experiences with cervical cancer that we haven't discussed?
Whether it's screening or follow-up or treatment, anything?
I've seen some two or three cervical cancer patients at one stage, so I really feel bad
for them.
So, had their access to the treatment or prevention earlier, probably they would have survived.
Because some few patients come here regularly for IV fluid center, feel very bad seeing them.
And how do you feel they could have gotten it earlier?
And what could they have done to maybe detect it at an earlier stage?
Like, one of them told me that she neglected her symptoms.
So, in spite of the doctor repeatedly telling her she didn't warrant it to take the treatment.
I see.
So, she feels bad about it now.
And why do you think she neglected her treatment?
Or did she say anything about why she neglected her symptoms?
Probably casual attitude, right?
Yeah, yeah.
And is that common, do you feel, in the patients you see?
Yeah, it might be common, yeah.
Okay.
So, that's very interesting, being casual.
Okay, I think, anything, sorry, anything else before I end?
Nothing.
Okay.
So, I think with that, that's all the information.
Thank you so much for everything you've shared.
Thank you.
I'm going to end the recording now, but this was very helpful.
Sorry, I'm just...
Please have your day.
Oh, yeah.
No worries.
No worries.
